---
title: Building Benchmarker
company: BuroHappold Engineering
date: 2014-07-01
layout: project-page
---

[BuroHappold Engineering](http://www.burohappold.com) is an international
multi-disciplinary engineering firm that works with premier contractors and
architecture firms to make ambitious building plans a reality. While working
with the Sustainability Team at BuroHappold's New York City offices in summer
2014, I spearheaded several initiatives to bring data-driven approaches to the
company's workflow.

One such project was this benchmarking web application. A common question for
clients is how projected building efficiency would compare to similar buildings
around the country. Though efficiency data for buildings are increasingly made
available through government agencies, no engineering firm had made a
systematic effort to utilize these data in the service of informing clients. My
task was to prototype a system for doing so.

## How it works

Two sources of data for nationwide energy efficiency information are the
Department of Energy's Building Performance Database, which utilizes a REST API
to distribute aggregate data about building performance, and the U.S. Energy
Information Agency's Commercial Buildings Energy Consumption Database, which is
a survey of building performance data collected every four years by the Agency
and distributed as disaggregated CSV files on its website.

I first built flexible software tools that allow the Sustainability Team to
access the relevant data from each of the two databases easily, filtering by
specific building use categories and size parameters. Another program sits
between the two data collection tools and smashes their outputs together by
standardizing the units, computing quantiles and writing both sets of data to a
CSV. The final step was to build a simple visualization of the combined data,
which computes the percentile for different system options and makes it
available to the user by hovering over the appropriate model's marker.

Note that the design requires BuroHappold to benchmark the system and create
files before users receive their customized graphic. This was a conscious
design decision requested by BuroHappold to allow them to choose appropriate
comparison buildings and provide information on the different system options
they are presenting.

After review with the team, we decided that in the interest of object
permanence and offering the most flexible experience for users, the
distributions of buildings from both data sources should be separate lines and
should be viewable simultaneously. Because it is a prototype, the experience is
not as polished as a final product might be.

## Example

Please note, the blinding green used for the line was to conform to newly
adopted visual standards at BuroHappold while I was there. It is not
necessarily the ideal color choice.

When users visit the page, they are presented with the distribution of
buildings for different levels of Energy Use Intensity from the Building
Performance Database.

![home](/assets/images/portfolio/benchmark/home.png)

Vertical lines locate the proposed system configurations in the distribution.
Hovering over the lines or names reveals more specific information on the
system configuration.

![System options](/assets/images/portfolio/benchmark/options.png)

Clicking on "CBECS" will switch to the other dataset, which has the same
features.

![CBECS](/assets/images/portfolio/benchmark/cbecs.png)


## Why it matters

This tool is an example of interactive design fed by a rich analysis and design
for reusability. Though the collection and analysis of the data are somewhat
complex tasks, the user does not see that complexity. By building the graphic
on top of reusable and easy-to-use data collection programs, this single
project created several different tools that can be applied to other
visualizations or analyses.

## Technologies
- Python
- Javascript + D3
- HTML
- CSS
