---
title: Building Systems Explorer
company: BuroHappold Engineering
date: 2014-07-01
layout: project-page
---

[BuroHappold Engineering](http://www.burohappold.com) is an international
multi-disciplinary engineering firm that works with premier contractors and
architecture firms to make ambitious building plans a reality. While working
with the Sustainability Team at BuroHappold's New York City offices in summer
2014, I spearheaded several initiatives to bring data-driven approaches to the
company's workflow.

One such project was this building systems explorer. Clients often have
difficulty understanding how mechanical system options compare to one another,
and for good reason. The relationships between systems can be complex. For
example, one system with a smaller water heater may reduce gas use but increase
electricity use compared to a system with a larger water heater. These two
systems may perform similarly in terms of overall energy efficiency, but
depending on local gas and electricity prices, one may be less expensive. How
do the energy usages of the two water heaters compare? How does each
contribute, in relative terms, to the rest of the system they are in? This tool
is designed to allow users to explore these complicated interrelationships.

## How it works

The home screen is a stacked bar chart comparing three system options. Hovering
over a rectangle highlights the rectangles of the same category in the other
systems (and the legend), and generates an information bubble giving more
specific information about that part of the system. Clicking on a rectangle
isolates that category in each of the systems and allows users to compare the
usage for that system across the system options. Clicking in the upper
left-hand corner returns the user to the main screen. Clicking on any of the
entries in the x-axis allows the user to explore the energy use makeup of that
option. Clicking on the x-axis again returns the user to the home screen.
Finally, the user can switch between different metrics for building performance
by clicking on the radio buttons on the bottom.

Note that this is a prototype; some particular design decisions, such as how
the user should return to the stacked bar chart, were not addressed in any
significant way. In the donut chart, we intended to provide a marker for which
system was currently being explored, but did not have time. Additionally, the
blinding green color was not a design choice, but rather a response to an
updated visual identity at BuroHappold. This was the first visualization I
worked on using D3.

## Example

Hovering over a rectangle highlights the same system in different options
(along with the appropriate box in the legend).

![Highlight](/assets/images/portfolio/systems/highlight.png)

Clicking a rectangle isolates that subsystem across the different options.

![One system](/assets/images/portfolio/systems/onesystem.png)

Clicking the upper left corner of the screen returns the user to the home
screen. Clicking on an entry on the x-axis allows the user to isolate one
option.

![One option](/assets/images/portfolio/systems/oneoption.png)

Clicking on the x-axis again returns the user to the home screen.

![Home](/assets/images/portfolio/systems/home.png)

All of these options are also available after changing the metric selection
(radio buttons on bottom).

![One option](/assets/images/portfolio/systems/switching.png)


## Why it matters

This tool is an example of interactive design that allows the user to explore
complex information. The complexity of the data required an approach that
emphasizes comparison in different ways.

## Technologies
- Javascript + d3.js
- HTML
- CSS
